# CS-465-Full-Stack-Development
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

In this course we developed a Full Stack application using a MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node.js (MEAN) stack. 

# Architecture
For the front-end development, it was all based on Express HTML, JavaScript, and a single-page application (SPA) to handle the dynamic aspects of the webpage. The frontend was created from HTML and JavaScript. JavaScript was used for managing website routes, controllers, and models. The main application file was used to route the Express application requests. Express HTML was written using handlebar views and HTML pages. A SPA was employed for administrative functions to manage website maintenance and updates.

On the back-end, I deployed a NoSQL MongoDB database. This database was used to store information such as trip information and user login information. The reasoning behind using a NoSQL database was that it allows information to be flexibly stored and not having to follow a rigid pattern. This allows flexibility in what information is stored in the database and how that information can be modified. 

# Functionality
How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a way to describe how to format data, so that it can be used in the JavaScript programming language. JSON formats data to be used as requests and responses through JavaScript, with the use of RESTful APIs on the frontend. JavaScript will then take the data and turn it into an object to be used in the Java language to process requests and return responses from the back-end. REST stands for Representational State Transfer, which is an architecture that will impose conditions on how an application programming interface (API) works. The API is basically the rulebook that different software systems use to communicate with each other.

While creating the MEAN Full Stack, we had to refactor the provided code several times to improve the functionality and efficiency of the code. Most of this was to provide reusable user interface (UI) components. For instance, instead of each page of the website having to describe the header and footer individually, I created separate header and footer files that could then be accessed in the CSS file. I also created separate files for each page, and then refactored the CSS file to include a link to the files, instead of having to list the information each time it was needed. Each process that was needed, such as login authentication, was given its own processes and functions to be used in the main application, so that it could be written once and accessed whenever it was needed. By providing modularity to the code, it reduced the complexity of the main application, which allowed it to process requests much faster since it did not have to wait for that process to finish before fielding another process.

# Testing
For testing the API endpoints, I used a program called Postman. This program allows you to send requests directly to your database and see the information that is sent as a response. This allows you to test the Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD) functionality of your database. This is the backbone of the website. This function allows the API to create user information, verify that information, create lists of trips, and allow that information to be updated and deleted by the administrator. This is also used for user authentication. When a user logs on, the API will send a read request to ensure that the user is authorized to view the website prior to allowing them to see the information. Each request from the API has an authentication added to the request. If the request is not authenticated, the user is sent an error and is not allowed to see the request. This prevents unauthorized users from accessing sensitive information on the website.

# Reflection
I wanted to learn full stack development to improve my skills as an all-around computer science major. Each skill that I learn will make me more marketable in my career. Having full stack development skills is in demand at this time in the job market. Being able to use different languages such as JavaScript, and being able to integrate several different programs, such as the MEAN stack, shows that I am able to problem solve and create new projects.
